President Alberto Fernández on Saturday sided with Vice-President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner and sacked one of his key officials, Productive Development Minister Matias Kulfas, after officials in the latter's portfolio briefed reporters against the former president. Fernández requested the minister's resignation, Argentina's presidential spokeswoman confirmed to the state news agency Télam. The request came after a number journalists received an "off-the-record" briefing from the portfolio, allegedly sent with his approval. The briefing blamed "Cristina's officials" – a reference to Kirchnerite figures aligned to the former president – for having "tailored the tender for the supply of supplies for the Néstor Kirchner gas pipeline to [private company] Techint." The trunk pipeline, the tender of which was officially launched Saturday, will vastly increase capacity for the transportation of gas from the unconventional Vaca Muerta shale formation in Patagonia. The accusation appeared to be a move to reignite tensions between the president and her vice-president and came just hours after the two shared the stage at an event on Friday to celebrate the centenary of state energy company YPF, which was privatised in the 1990s and renationalised in 2012 under Fernández de Kirchner. That meeting between president and vice-president was read as a small step towards restoring relations between the two leaders, who had not spoken for three months previously amid differences over economic policy, according to reports. Before tensions truly ignited in the ruling Frente de Todos coalition, the president decided to ask his minister to resign. "It is ethically reprehensible to speak off the record [to reporters] to the detriment of another. I do not endorse such behaviour and I share the discomfort expressed by Cristina [Fernández de] Kirchner," the president posted on Twitter, before asking for the minister's resignation. Earlier, on the same social network, the former president said the briefing was "very unfair and, above all, very painful that this type of attack is carried out by officials of the Frente de Todos government itself." "Worst of all," she added, they do it "without showing their faces, off the record, lying and using journalists."   – TIMES/AFP 