Legal sports betting has slowly but surely become one of the biggest and fastest-growing markets worldwide – Argentina is no exception. Online sports betting is currently among the most active industries in Argentina, which means that the legal side of this market involves numerous regulations and laws that need to be addressed and made more approachable to end-users like yourself. This is exactly the purpose of this article, so make sure you read it all the way through to prevent any legal issues, as these can seriously ruin one’s sports betting experience. But before we delve into a more detailed tackling of this topic, let’s first cover the basics.  Much like the case in the US, which does it by individual states, Argentina also divides sports betting regulations into individual provinces. Translated into laymen’s terms, this basically means that players can find regulated betting operations in certain geolocations – the capital Buenos Aires, for example – whereas certain other provinces may not fall under these laws and therefore don’t have regulated betting. Argentie provinces that allow sports betting, whether on March Madness Bracket or using a platform like BetUS, are regulated and licensed via the Lottery of the City of Buenos Aires. The good thing about online sportsbooks is that they can operate in all Argentinian provinces, thus granting sports bettors access to online sports betting in all Argentina’s provinces. If a business wants to operate a sportsbook, they must know that there is no cap on the number of licenses given to them. But, to earn appropriate licences, these businesses must meet certain requirements (a minimum of 20) within the application process. According to the 2019 Tax Act, once the necessary licenses have been obtained, the business is legally enabled to operate and must pay 25 percent to the provincial tax authority. The act also states that to keep track of all licensed operators within the Argentine sports betting market, the government must also open an Online Gaming Licenses Registry.  Since Argentina’s sports betting regulations may differ depending on which city you are in, instead of state-by-state, it is best to inform yourself about these rules according to the city you are in at the moment. Numerous cities in Argentina allow regulated sports betting to both visitors and residents as long as they are of age, ie 18 years old or older, but it is always a good idea to double-check as some books can be accessed only within their region. Those books that are regulated will not accept wagers from patrons who come outside of their regulated area. This is where online betting sites come into play as these platforms offer a solution to this issue as they have sportsbooks that are accessible from all Argentinian provinces. Since Argentina legislation does not outlaw international sportsbooks, these types of books are licensed within their own markets and are therefore capable of operating in all of Argentina legally.  It comes as no surprise that soccer is the number one sport here. Soccer is by far the most popular sport for wagering on the events. For example, Lionel Messi – one of the best and biggest players in the history of the Argentine national team – is the subject of a huge chunk of wagers. This means that the soccer season is also by far the busiest time for all legal sports betting operators across Argentina, while the country’s government is expected to gain millions of dollars in profit only from soccer-based wagers. Basically, soccer is to Argentinian bettors what football is to the US-based bettors. Aside from soccer, Argentina’s bettors also prefer basketball as the second most popular sport.  The government of Argentina collects the revenue of sports betting. The government achieves this through taxes, taking 25 percent of each bet. From this 25 percent, 15 percent goes to the government as general income tax. Eight percent of that 25 percent is allocated based on which activity fueled the revenue. The remaining two percent goes to the government in the form of licensing fees. Each municipality that hosts a sportsbook collects 10 percent from each of these licensing fees. The officials in Buenos Aires did not create a disclosure yet for where this revenue will go in the form of taxes. However, we can say with great certainty that if they follow models that other countries use, that money will most probably go to improving the country's educational system and infrastructure. Overall, we may safely say that the scope of sports betting in Argentina is still somewhat limited. Still, we also have to point out that the advocates are encouraging the country to adopt and agree on a legal and universal platform for sports betting that would cover the whole nation. Such a unified platform would undoubtedly create a stream of large revenue for Argentina as a whole and would help affect the legal authorities to create a unified law for sports betting in Argentina that each online bettor could easily understand.  Some Argentine provinces offer sites for sports betting where residents can bet legally. However, only the residents can access these betting sites and create accounts for them. In other words, you can bet on these websites only if you’re local in that province. Some Argentinian sportsbooks available online in Argentina are also popular in the USA. These sportsbooks include MyBookie, Bovada, BetNow, XBet, and SportsBetting. All of these mentioned sportsbooks are top-rated, reputable, and top-notch. Moreover, they’re not just popular in Argentina but all around the globe. Most importantly, you can place your bets on either of these websites. That’s about it. We hope you’ve found our helpful guide beneficial and that you have a better and more in-depth knowledge of how sports betting in Argentina is regulated. 