With President Alberto Fernández declaring that he was taking care of a “pending debt” to the population, Argentina’s government on Monday announced a new national mental health programme and increased funding for treatment and care. The Peronist leader, unveiling a host of new steps to improve wellbeing, said his government would double the national budget assigned to mental health and take steps to improve training for healthcare professionals and boost outpatient care. Fernández said mental health problems in Argentina had been exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic. "During the pandemic, stress, anxieties, fear and a lot of suffering were generated,” said the president, speaking at a state hospital in Parque Patricios, Buenos Aires. “Each person has to know that they are not alone and we can no longer turn a deaf ear to this problem.” The new National Mental Health Strategy will seek to "guarantee mental health care and attention at all stages of life,” said Fernández. He said the current budget will be raised from 3.7 billion pesos (US$31 million) to 7.7 billion pesos (US$64.7 million), thanks to extraordinary funding of four billion pesos. He continued: "We are going to prioritise paying off another debt, which is the full implementation of the Mental Health Law. In mental health there are no vaccines, but there are actions. We need joint work from different ministries." The initiative will prioritise the articulation of “policies in the national health system, based on a rights-based, community-based and violence-free perspective, and from a perspective of respect for diversity," the Health Ministry explained in a statement. The aim is to promote activities to prevent mental illness, the promotion of specific quality treatment and improve access to primary care in all provinces. Argentina’s Mental Health Law, passed in 2010, emphasised limiting hospitalisation in asylums and prohibiting the creation of new psychiatric hospitals, with the idea of transforming institutions into multi-purpose hospitals. The new mental health plan will see the creation of emergency and interdisciplinary facilities for mental health throughout the country, with staff specialisation in mental health and problematic drug use implemented in national hospitals. Community mental health projects are also being promoted through the "Entre varios en barrios" programme, and the construction of 2,000 houses to be used for outpatient care is being planned, as well as a programme of work opportunities for people in the process of being discharged from institutes for mental health problems, among other steps.  – TIMES/AFP