US chart-toppers Maroon 5 return to Argentina this Friday for a much-anticipated show at the Campo Argentino de Polo (Argentine Polo Ground) in Buenos Aires. Promoted by DF Entertainment in conjunction with Cablevision's Flow Music, the show was originally set to take place in 2020 but was rescheduled due to the coronavirus pandemic. Doors will open at 5pm, with a performance by DJ MailBox, a producer and sound engineer for Maroon 5, kicking off proceedings at 7.45pm. Zoe Gotusso, the Latin Grammy-nominated Argentine singer and songwriter, will take the stage for a set at 8:30pm. Gotusso, who hails from Córdoba, has established herself as one of the most promising artists of the new generation of local musicians. She is currently on a tour of more than 60 dates and has already performed in Spain (Madrid, Barcelona, and Bilbao), Colombia (Bogotá and Medellín), Mexico City, and various cities across Argentina. Last year, Gotusso received two Latin Grammy nominations for Best New Artist and Best Pop/Rock Song for 'Ganas' (“Desires”). She also won the Gardel award for Best Pop Album. Maroon 5 will begin their performance at 9:30pm. To date, the Los Angeles group — one of the longest-running and most successful bands in modern pop music — has been recognised worldwide with three Grammy awards and multiple gold and platinum accreditations in more than 35 countries. The band has won over fans and critics alike with their hybrid sound of rock and R&B, a sound they introduced on their debut album, Songs About Jane, and their double platinum album, It Won’t be Soon Before Long. The music video for their Grammy-nominated single 'Sugar' has gained a record of more than two billion views to date. Maroon 5 launched their sixth studio album, Red Pill Blues, at the end of 2017. The album features single “Girls Like You” ft. Cardi B, which reached #1 on both iTunes and Spotify charts. Perfil has collected a complete list of trains and subway and colectivo lines to get to the show. Additionally, Flow Music subscribers will be able to stream the complete show through the platform on any device.  — TIMES/PERFIL