Plácido Domingo, one of the most prestigious tenors in the world, is returning to Buenos Aires' famous Teatro Colón to perform for the first time in 24 years. The veteran opera star will headline performances at the legendary opera house on April 7 at 8pm and April 10 at 5pm. The April 7 show has already sold out. The event will be held with the intention of raising funds to provide humanitarian support for the victims of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Buenos Aires City Mayor Horacio Rodríguez Larreta formalised the announcement on March 31 alongside the Representación Central Ucrania (Ukrainian Central Representation) and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). With 70 years of experience, the UNHCR is active in 135 countries, attending to the needs of people who have had to flee from their homes due to war, persecution, widespread violence or human rights violations. Currently, more than four million people have fled Ukraine since the conflict began and about 12 million remain in the country in need of humanitarian aid. “We are committed to the situation of the refugees and those displaced from Ukraine,” said Rodríguez Larreta. “Similarly, culture never remains indifferent in the face of human crises and tragedies. On this occasion, the voice of Plácido Domingo will be the bridge that connects our wishes for solidarity with the Ukrainian people in order to bring them our aid. We hope that this will be a moving moment and an opportunity for us to demonstrate forcefully in favour of peace.” On March 2, the City mayor received Ukrainian Chargé d’Affaires in Argentina, Sergiy Nebrat, and representatives of the Ukrainian community in the city. At the meeting, Rodríguez Larreta offered full support from the city, which includes holding cultural activities such as this event. With more than 150 roles to his credit and more than 4,000 performances in his career, Plácido Domingo has performed in world premieres of operas, starred in films, and won 12 Grammy awards. His career has spanned more than half a century, and he has been celebrated at Operas in New York, Vienna, Verona and Milan, among others. Tickets still remain available for the April 10 show at 5pm, and can be purchased online at teatrocolon.org.ar. Tickets can also be purchased in person at the Teatro Colón ticket office (Tucumán 1171), Monday through Saturday from 9am to 8pm and Sundays from 9am to 5pm. They are also available at the premises of Tu Entrada on Viamonte 560, local 5, Monday through Friday from 9am to 4pm. —TIMES