President Alberto Fernández has announced the birth of his son, Francisco Fernández Yáñez, declaring that he and First Lady Fabiola Yáñez were “immensely happy.” "Francisco was born! Mother @fabiolaoficialok and I are immensely happy. Welcome to life!!!" wrote Fernández in a message on Instagram in the early hours of Monday morning. It was accompanied by a picture showing the newborn’s footprints, along with details of the infant’s name and birth. Baby Francisco, weighing 3.51 kilogrammes, was born just after 1.20am on Monday, April 11, at the Otamendi Sanatorium by caesarean section, the Presidential Medical Unit (UMP) confirmed in a statement. "Mrs Fabiola Yáñez was admitted after midnight to the Otamendi Sanatorium with labour contractions that did not progress, for which a caesarean section was performed," said the unit, which oversees the health of the president and first lady. "The evolution of both the baby and the mother is satisfactory, and both are in perfect health," added the document, signed by the UMP’s director Dr Federico Saavedra.  ‘Happy and fortunate’ In her own post on Instagram, Yáñez expressed her delight and thanked Argentines for their support during the pregnancy. “Today, April 11, at 1.21am, our son was born, whom we have been waiting for and loving from day one. We are happy and fortunate to welcome him surrounded by affection in our Argentina. We are grateful for all the good wishes that you have sent us during these months, you have supported us a lot. The reality surpasses any of them, we are living a dream that we have long been waiting for and today we embrace with love,” she wrote. Fernández, 63, revealed last month that the baby was due between April 10 and 20. He also said that he would take at least two days of paternity leave following the birth. Government officials told local media on Monday that the president remained with his family and that he was “attentive to government issues” and that “the Cabinet is continuing with its usual agenda."  ‘Free man’ Yáñez, a journalist and actor, has been the president’s partner since 2013. This is her first child. The first lady previously revealed that the baby was conceived with the help of IVF treatment following the loss of two pregnancies. Rumours that she was pregnant had initially begun circulating in the aftermath of the 2019 PASO primaries, after she appeared to hold her belly at a public event. The UMP eventually confirmed in a September 23, 2021 statement that a baby was due. Discussing the infant’s name in a recent interview, Yañez said previously that the presidential couple liked the fact that the name came from the Latin word ‘Francus,’ meaning “free man.” The 40-year-old also hinted that the name was a nod to Pope Francis, the Argentine leader of the Catholic Church, saying that both of them admired the pontiff greatly. This is the president’s second child. He is also the father of 27-year-old Tani Fernández Luchetti, the result of his relationship with Marcela Luchetti, which ended in 2003.  – TIMES/AFP/PERFIL