International streaming giants Netflix have announced a new run of original films from Argentina, another stride forward for Latin American content on the streaming service. The films will form part of Netflix’s newly-announced brand “Hecho en Argentina” (“Made in Argentina”), a run of documentaries, original productions, and other titles made in this country. One film of note already making headlines is Granizo (titled in English “All Hail”), a Netflix original drama starring veteran actor Guillermo Francella that premiered on the site on March 30. Francisco ‘Paco’ Ramos, Netflix’s vice-president for original Latin American content, recently spoke with Perfil about the details of the plan and the importance of original content for Argentina. “It seems to me that since we started to take a step toward producing and programming local content in every country, but especially in Argentina, we very quickly realised that our subscribers reacted very well to the content in which they could see themselves reflected,” Ramos said. He added: “What has been proven through streaming is that this reflection creates an immediate emotional and intellectual alignment with what you are being told, and that drives us to go further.” When asked about future plans, Ramos said finding the right balance of content, quality and quantity is essential. “I am content with the balance we have achieved: we have documentaries, licensed content, original productions,” he said. “We have a bit of everything. 2022 will be a year that within 10 months will create a very different picture.”  Sharing the vision Announcing the new line of programming on March 10, Ramos noted the importance of availability and access to Argentine films and series. “Year after year we can see an endless number of series and films made in Argentina of very high quality and social and cultural significance,” he wrote. “At Netflix we share this vision and want to bring the best Argentine stories to our homes around the world, so that, whenever and wherever you want, you can always find a new Argentine film or show.” Among the titles he name-checked were La ira de Dios (“The Wrath of God”), Matrimillas (Spanish play on words between “matrimonio,” or marriage, and “millas,” or miles), and Claudia Piñeiro’s Elena Sabe (“Elena knows”). Among the directors are Sebastián Schindel, Sebastián De Caro and Anahí Berneri, respectively. — TIMES/PERFIL