Argentina's consumer price index accelerated in December by 3.8 percent, lifting the country's inflation rate for 2021 to 50.9 percent – one of the highest rates in the world. The data, posted by the INDEC national statistics bureau on Thursday, underlines Argentina's continued struggle to tackle runaway price increases. In 2020, a year of economic paralysis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, price increases totalled 36.1 percent. In its 2022 Budget bill, which was rejected by Congress, the government projected an inflation rate of 33 percent for next year. Opposition lawmakers consider that estimate to be unrealistic, as do the experts. According to the most recent Central Bank survey of consultancy firms, analysts and banks, prices will soar 55 percent over the next 12 months. During 2021, food prices soared by 50.3 percent, according to INDEC. The largest hikes were seen in the restaurants and hotels (up 65.4 percent), which rose 5.9 percent in December alone, and transport (57.6 percent). Core inflation rose in December to 4.4 percent, compared to 3.3 percent the previous month. "During 2021, the government tried to anchor inflation by basically regulating the price of utility tariffs and the exchange rate," said Hernán Fletcher, of the Centro de Economía Política Argentina. Argentina has had an strict exchange controls in place since 2019, allowing individuals to buy just US$200 dollars a month at the official rate, a move adopted in order to protect Central Bank reserves.  IMF talks Argentina is in the midst of negotiations with the International Monetary Fund for an extended facilities fund agreement to replace the record US$57-billion stand-by agreement signed in 2018 with the Mauricio Macri administration. The country's debt to the Fund totals some US$44 billion. President Alberto Fernández refused to take delivery of the remaining tranches of the loan upon taking office in December 2019. Talks, however, are not progressing as both sides would like. The Fernández administration has been unable to agree a new deal, in large part due to a disagreement over fiscal discipline and the size of Argentina's deficit in the coming years. "For us, the word 'austerity' has been banished from the discussion; for us we have to grow," President Fernández said last week. "We have managed to reduce the primary deficit, not because of less investment but as a result of growth." With the country's liquid international reserves estimated to be below US$4 billion, Argentina faces payments to the IMF of US$19 billion this year and another US$20 billion in 2023, plus US$4 billion in 2024. "An agreement with the IMF may improve the economy in terms of expectations, but in terms of inflation I don't see 2022 as very different from 2021," said economist Pablo Tigani. – TIMES/AFP/NA 