Argentine tennis legend Juan Martín del Potro broke down in tears on court on Tuesday night as he began an emotional goodbye to competitive tennis. Del Potro, or 'Delpo,' acknowledged that he was near the end of his career in an on-court post-match interview, saying "it's possible that we don't meet again." The 33-year-old's return to tennis after a two-and-a-half-year injury absence did not go as plan, ending in defeat as he beaten in straight sets by compatriot Federico Delbonis in the Argentina Open. "Today I gave everything I had, until the last point. I'm happy because my last match was probably on a court and not at a press conference. And in front of all of you. I'm going to remember you always," Del Potro said through tears, addressing the entire stadium. "Delpo is not leaving," chanted the crowd, who gave him a standing ovation. In what was expected to be one of Del Potro's final appearances before retiring, the former US Open champion was overcome with emotion as Delbonis wrapped up a 6-1, 6-3 victory in one hour and 23 minutes. To huge applause from the local crowd in Buenos Aires, Del Potro wiped away tears as he prepared to serve what would turn out to be the final game of the match. After Delbonis completed the victory, Del Potro embraced his opponent at the net before waving to the crowd on the Buenos Aires Lawn Tennis Club's Guillermo Vilas court. Del Potro, who won 22 professional tournaments in a lengthy career, signalled at the weekend he plans to retire soon after this week’s tournament, describing his comeback as "more a farewell than a return." "It's difficult to deal with so much pain. I'm not here for a miracle comeback," he confessed in a pre-match conference, confirming that his last two tournaments would be the ATP 250 in Buenos Aires and the ATP 500 in Rio de Janeiro, starting on February 14. He was given a loud ovation as he walked on court by a packed crowd on Tuesday but was unable to deliver what would have been a fairytale win. After taking the opening game with a break of serve, Del Potro was hampered by his lack of mobility thereafter, with Delbonis rattling off three breaks of serve to win the first set in 33 minutes. Del Potro put up stronger resistance in the second set, but was ultimately overpowered by Delbonis. Tuesday's defeat was Del Potro's first event since fracturing his kneecap in June 2019 at Queen's in London. Del Potro, who beat Roger Federer in the 2009 US Open final, said his knee troubles had left him "living a nightmare" with four surgeries seeing his world ranking slip to 757.  – TIMES/AFP