Several thousand demonstrators marched in Buenos Aires on Tuesday to demand a reform of the judicial system and changes in the Supreme Court, amid accusations between the government and the opposition that the Judiciary has been used by the one side to persecute the other side. The march, led by Kirchnerite groups of the ruling coalition and supported by the government of Alberto Fernández, human rights organisations and trade unions, denounced the alleged bias of the Judiciary, to the benefit of the opposition and against, mainly, Vice-President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner who has faced numerous corruption cases against her dating back to her two terms as president (2007-2015). Federal Judge Juan Ramos Padilla, one of the organisers of the rally, which took place in front of the Palacio de los Tribunales in Buenos Aires, argued that "the people need equal justice” in an address. "The Supreme Court should resign, to start building a Judiciary that serves us all,” he declared.,” he declared in an address. The protesters also demanded that judges investigate recent allegations of state espionage against political leaders and trade unionists, allegedly organised under the government of the centre-right former president Mauricio Macri (2015-2019). Oscar Medina, a state bank employee, told AFP that he took part in the march for judicial reform because "a Supreme Court is the highest court in a country and it should judge for the entire population, not belong to powerful groups.." A few days earlier, the opposition Juntos por el Cambio (“Together for Change”) coalition coalition, of which Macri is a leader, described the march as a "coup” against the republic. "They have tried to justify the corruption cases by attributing them to a non-existent and crude ‘lawfare’," a term that Kirchnerites have used to denounce graft cases against ex-public officials, the centre-right alliance said in a statement.  ‘Aristocracy’ President Fernández has been pushing for judicial reform, saying he wants to prevent "decision-making power from being concentrated in a small number of judges who have the power to hear and decide on almost all cases with institutional relevance," as he told Congress in 2020. The reform package, which Congress will continue to debate this summer, includes the creation of new courts to redistribute cases and reduce the influence of the 12 federal courts that investigate most politically sensitive cases, and the creation of a ‘Tribunal de Garantías’ (“Court of Guarantees”) that would limit the Supreme Court to constitutional issues. For the opposition, this is an attempt to create a justice system more favourable to the ruling coalition, especially the cases involving Fernández de Kirchner, which sooner or later will reach the nation’s highest tribunal. Meanwhile, for the vice-president, Argentina's judicial officials "seem to constitute an aristocracy," as she declared in one of her many criticisms of the judges prosecuting her. Last week, speaking in Honduras, Fernández de Kirchner stated that "in the same way that military coups were financed” in the past, “judicial coups are beginning to be financed in Latin America.” Argentina’s Judiciary validated all the coups d'état in the country during the 20th century, although since 1984 it has tried and convicted the military leaders of the brutal last civic-military dictatorship (1976-1983) for the disappearance of 30,000 people. Trials for human rights violations continued in lower courts, albeit extremely slowly, according to humanitarian NGOs.  Political interest Legal expert Ricardo Gil Lavedra, one of the judges who convicted the junta that led the last military dictatorship, told AFP that Argentina’s Judiciary, "after the return to democracy [in 1983], came to occupy a central place in the political arena." In the following decade, the Supreme Court accompanied the neoliberal economic reforms of Peronist president Carlos Menem (1989-1999), with rulings favourable to his government, which was the target of multiple corruption allegations. "This new protagonism was awakening political interest in how it could be co-opted and made friendlier. This began to happen in the 1990s, with the incorporation of new judges in the [Supreme] Court, which was sympathetic to power, and when attention was paid to the federal courts that have the majority of cases against public officials,” said Gil Lavedra. “That is the genesis.” Between 2002 and 2005, seven judges left the court, with some resigning on issues that brought the court into disrepute. In 2003, then-president Néstor Kirchner (2003-2007) introduced an unprecedented process of public hearings to select judges based on their academic, professional and tax records. In 2015, Macri pushed for the appointment of two new judges to the current Supreme Court, which must rule on three of the nine cases brought against his predecessor Fernández de Kirchner for alleged corruption and in which she had been acquitted by lower courts.