Argentine TV series El Reino (titled in English The Kingdom) and Spanish film El buen patrón (The Good Boss) won the most coveted awards Sunday night at the Platino Awards, an event that rewards the best of the Ibero-American audiovisual world In the categories dedicated to the small screen in the ninth edition of the Platino Awards, held this year in Madrid, the Argentine series won Best Ibero-American Miniseries or Teleseries. Claudia Piñeiro and Marcelo Piñeyro, screenwriters of the TV series about an evangelical vice-presidential candidate who replace a murdered presidential candidate during mid-campaign, were rewarded Best Miniseries or Teleseries Creators. “We want to give [the award] to the public, who were not only entertained by El Reino, but who came out to debate the issues it touches on: Who is in charge of us, why do the ultra-conservative parties join forces with the churches to restrict rights, especially those of women and dissidents?” said Piñeiro. El Reino, which is currently filming its second season, won a third statuette for Best Male Supporting Actor, which went to Argentine actor Joaquín Furriel. El buen patrón, a dark comedy by Fernando León de Aranoa about an unscrupulous boss played by Javier Bardem, won four statuettes, including Best Ibero-American Fiction Film.  In-person ceremony As with last year’s ceremony, the awards show was held in-person, in a Spain that since the end of March has implemented a strategy to treat Covid-19 as an endemic disease, comparable to influenza, thanks to the high vaccination rate of its population. In 2020, the awards were announced via YouTube from Mexico due to the pandemic. The Platino Awards are promoted by Spain's Entidad de Gestión de Derechos de los Productores Audiovisuales (EGEDA), the Ibero-American Federation of Film and Audiovisual Producers (FIPCA) and the Ibero-American Film Academies and Institutes. Since it made its debut in 2014 in Panama, the event has been held annually, alternately in Spain and Latin America.  — TIMES/AFP/TÉLAM