A federal judge has agreed to close criminal proceedings against President Alberto Fernández and First Lady Fabiola Yáñez related to the so-called ‘Olivosgate’ scandal, in exchange for “conciliatory” payments totalling three million pesos. San Isidro Federal Judge Lino Mirabelli approved the agreement on Monday, after lead prosecutor Fernando Domínguez signed off on the offer from the defendants last week. Under the deal, Fernández and Yáñez must transfer — within 10 days — a total of three million pesos (around US$24,400 with the day’s official exchange rate) to the prestigious ANLIS-Malbrán research institute and a centre for development of vaccines and serums. The president must pay 1.6 million pesos, with the first lady paying 1.4 million pesos. The prosecution estimates that the amount “would cover the price of a ventilator” used in intensive care units for Covid patients with four plus days of hospitalisation.  Quarantine violation The allegations relate to a controversial quarantine violation by the presidential couple in July 2020, when the duo hosted an illegal dinner at the Olivos presidential residence to celebrate the first lady’s 39th birthday. The event, attended by around a dozen guests, took place at the height of a strict coronavirus lockdown, when all citizens were being told to remain inside their homes in isolation. In August last year, photographs of the event began leaking online, sparking anger from citizens across the country. When the scandal first broke, Fernández apologised for the celebration and described it as “a mistake.” He argued, however, that “no crime” had been committed given that there was no Covid-19 outbreak as a result of the event – comments which prompted severe criticism from the opposition. Following his remarks, a foundation linked to the opposition presented a legal complaint against the president, the first lady and their guests, with all those in attendance at the event subsequently charged by the courts. “There is no dispute between the parties as to the legal qualification of the fact, the operability of the institute invoked, the extent of the damage and the proportionality of the offer,” wrote Judge Mirabelli in Monday's ruling approving the agreement and closing the case. The magistrate agreed that the violation of Covid rules was “unrelated to the [president’s] exercise of the public functions assigned to him as head of the National Executive Branch.” The amounts offered by both the president and the first lady qualify as "integral reparations," the judge argued, a measure outlined in Article 59 Paragraph 6 of the Criminal Code. Such reparations require that an offer be accepted by a prosecutor and approved by a judge in order for criminal actions to be halted. Cacerolazo protest Responding to the news, anti-government critics on Twitter organised a 'cacerolazo' pot-banging protest to express their outrage. “Alberto Fernandez closes the case of the Olivos Party with the complicity of Prosecutor Domínguez and Judge Mirabelli. Tonight they deserve the noise of the pans,” tweeted journalist Luis Gasulla. “I don't know if [a] #Cacerolazo is the way. Neither banging pots and pans nor waving flags moves them. It's obvious – the deaths and the damage they caused do not move them,” complained one user. Another user said that no amount of money could “repair so much pain, or so much disrespect for all Argentines.” President Fernández, however, defended the decision to pay reparations, saying last week that “citizens have the right to propose a financial remedy to extinguish the action.” “I used a right that I have as a citizen, not a prerogative as president,” he added. According to the Noticias Argentinas news agency, Fernández will take out a loan with Banco Santander to pay the fine. The president, a university and criminal law professor, appeared in court without a lawyer to offer monetary compensation. Yáñez told the court that her funds would be paid with the support of her family. According to analysts, the 'Olivosgate' scandal negatively impacted public opinion, arriving shortly before the midterm elections in November 2021, in which the government lost the majority in the Senate and various seats in the House of Representatives. — TIMES/AFP/NA/PERFIL