Coldplay fans in Argentina are brushing aside economic woes to snap up tickets to see their favourite band in Buenos Aires later this year. The award-winning British rockers this week announced an eighth show at River Plate's Monumental stadium for November 5 after selling out seven previous dates at the 60,000-capacity ground. Tickets for those gigs sold out in barely a few minutes. This latest announcement means that Coldplay are just one show away from equalling the record nine-gig stretch at River's stadium by ex-Pink Floyd rocker Roger Waters in March 2012. The group fronted by Chris Martin will make their stop in Argentina during their 'Music of the Spheres World Tour,' playing Buenos Aires on October 25, 26, 28 and 29 and November 1, 2, 4 and 5. Tickets for the new date will be on sale Tuesday, May 31, as from 10am, through the website All Access (http://allaccess.com.ar/). For the shows in Argentina, as well as those in Brazil, the opening act will be United States singer H.E.R., while in Colombia and Chile, Camila Cabello will open for the band. Despite announcing in 2019 that they were considering not touring again due to environmental concerns, Coldplay later decided to launch this new ambitious tour with commitments to sustainability initiatives, including steps to reduce CO2 emissions and planting a tree for every ticket sold. Shows on the 'Music Of The Spheres World Tour' aim to be powered entirely by very low-emission renewable energy, with solar installations at each venue, used cooking oil, a kinetic stadium floor and fan-powered kinetic bicycles. It will also offer free drinking water, promoting the elimination of plastic bottles at all recyclable venues and will put 10 percent of all profits into a fund for environmental and socially conscious causes, including ClientEarth, One Tree Planted and The Ocean Cleanup. Coldplay has a special relationship with local fans that began with their first visit in 2007 at the Teatro Gran Rex and was strengthened in 2010 when they performed for the first at River. The band returned to the country in 2016 at the opening of its so far last world tour 'A Head Full of Dreams' occurred at the Estadio de La Plata, a place it also chose for the tour's close a year later. — TIMES/TÉLAM