Just under a third of those who voted for Juntos por el Cambio in the 2021 midterm elections are considering changing their vote to support Javier Milei in the 2023 presidential ballot, a new poll claims. The new survey, produced by the Management & Fit consultancy firm and conducted in the last weeks of April, found that almost 29 percent of opposition voters now want to support the La Libertad Avanza lawmaker’s bid for the Casa Rosada. Although there is still more than a year to go before next year’s PASO primary elections that will confirm candidates for the 2023 elections, the survey will make for bitter reading for the opposition. The data also underlines the growth in support for the outspoken economist, who has made waves with his libertarian and liberal views and persistent attacks on the “political caste.” Last week, Juntos por el Cambio leaders put out a statement saying they would not seek to accommodate Milei and his fellow party lawmakers into their front and accusing the economist of seeking to undermine coalition unity. Management & Fit quizzed some 2,200 people across the country aged between 16 and 75 years of age for its latest poll, with voters from all economic sectors interviewed. According to the survey, 28.8 percent of those who voted for Juntos por el Cambio candidates in 2021 intend to switch their vote to Milei in the presidential vote. Of all opposition voters last time out, 54.2 percent said they would back Buenos Aires City Mayor Horacio Rodríguez Larreta – the likely frontrunner – for head of state. As far as Frente de Todos is concerned, 78.4 percent of those who voted for the ruling coalition in 2021 say they will do the same in 2023. Looking at all respondents, just 27 percent of all respondents said they would back the ruling coalition’s candidate in a presidential ballot, with 26.6 percent planning to back the hopeful designated by the opposition coalition’s three main parties (PRO, the UCR and Civic Coalition). Again underlining the rise of outspoken liberal candidates, 22.8 percent of those quizzed plan to vote for the La Libertad Avanza hopeful. Finally, the Management & Fit survey found that more than 65 percent of those citizens who disapprove of Alberto Fernández's government will cast their vote in favour of Juntos por el Cambio or Javier Milei's party. Speaking to CNN Radio, Management & Fit’s Director Mariel Fornoni said that Milei is “beginning to capitalise on people’s discontent.” Many of those who “opted for Juntos por el Cambio in 2021 are migrating to Milei," she observed, adding that the lawmaker was also recruiting “new voters” fed up with the political status quo.  – TIMES/PERFIL